---
title: Unum
excerpt: Orchestrating Serverless Applications without an Orchestrator
author: Amit
status: completed
---
Standalone orchestrators simplify the development of serverless applications by
providing higher-level programming interfaces, coordinating function
interactions and ensuring exactlyonce execution. However, they limit application
flexibility and are expensive to use. We show that these specialized
orchestration services are unnecessary. Instead, application-level
orchestration, deployed as a library, can support the same programming
interfaces, complex interactions and execution guarantees, utilizing only basic
serverless components that are already universally supported and billed at a
fine-grained per-use basis. Furthermore, application-level orchestration affords
applications more flexibility and reduces costs for both providers and users.

To demonstrate this, we present Unum, an application-level serverless
orchestration system. Unum introduces an intermediate representation that
partitions higher-level application definitions at compile-time and provides
orchestration as a runtime library that executes in-situ with user-defined FaaS
functions. On unmodified serverless infrastructures, Unum functions coordinate
and ensure correctness in a decentralized manner by leveraging strongly
consistent data stores.

Compared with AWS Step Functions, a state-of-the-art stan- dalone orchestrator,
our evaluation shows that Unum performs well, costs significantly less and
grants applications greater flexibility to employ application-specific patterns
and optimizations. For a representative set of applications, Unum runs as much
as 2x faster and costs 9x cheaper.
